[confmap] - new feature flag for append merging strategy (#12097)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector: confmap/README.md

4. For each "Converter", call "Convert" for the "result".
5. Return the "result", aka effective, configuration.

> #### New Merging strategy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### (Experimental) Append merging strategy for lists
```

> When merging configs from different sources, we currently override static values such as slices, numbers, and strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When merging configs from different sources, lists are overridden instead of being merged.
```

> However, you can combine lists instead of discarding the existing ones by enabling `confmap.enableMergeAppendOption` feature flag. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can opt-in to experimentally combine slices instead of discarding the existing ones by enabling `confmap.enableMergeAppendOption` feature flag. Lists are appended in the order in which they appear in their configuration sources.

This will **not** become the default in the future, we are still deciding how this should be configured and want your feedback on [this issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/issues/8754).
```

> ##### Example

Reviewer: I wonder if we should use an example in which the order matters (e.g. `processors`). I think this is an important detail that may not be obvious from this example (since the order in which you declare extensions should not matter)

Author: I'll amend this example to include processors as well.

Consider the following configs,

```yaml
# main.yaml
receivers:
  otlp/in:
processors:
  batch:
exporters:
  otlp/out:
extensions:
  file_storage:

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [ otlp/in ]
      processors: [ batch ]
      exporters: [ otlp/out ]
  extensions: [ file_storage ]
```

```yaml
# extra_extension.yaml
extensions:
  healthcheckv2:

service:
  extensions: [ healthcheckv2 ]
```

> If you run the collector with following command,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you run the Collector with following command,
```

```

> otelcol --config=main.yaml --config=extra_extension.yaml --feature-gates=-confmap.enableMergeAppendOption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
otelcol --config=main.yaml --config=extra_extension.yaml --feature-gates=confmap.enableMergeAppendOption
```

```
then the final configuration after config resolution will look like following:

```yaml
# main.yaml
receivers:
  otlp/in:
processors:
  batch:
exporters:
  otlp/out:
extensions:
  file_storage:
  healthcheckv2:

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [ otlp/in ]
      processors: [ batch ]
      exporters: [ otlp/out ]
  extensions: [ file_storage, healthcheckv2 ]
```

> Notice that the `service::extensions` list is a combination of both configurations. By default, it is `service::extensions: [healthcheckv2]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that the `service::extensions` list is a combination of both configurations. By default, the value of the last configuration source passed, `extra_extension`, would be used, so the extensions list would be: `service::extensions: [healthcheckv2]`.
```

4. For each "Converter", call "Convert" for the "result".
5. Return the "result", aka effective, configuration.

#### (Experimental) Append merging strategy for lists

> You can opt-in to experimentally combine slices instead of discarding the existing ones by enabling `confmap.enableMergeAppendOption` feature flag. Lists are appended in the order in which they appear in their configuration sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can opt-in to experimentally combine slices instead of discarding the existing ones by enabling the `confmap.enableMergeAppendOption` feature flag. Lists are appended in the order in which they appear in their configuration sources.
```

> This will **not** become the default in the future, we are still deciding how this should be configured and want your feedback on [this issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/issues/8754).

Reviewer 3: > This will **not** become the default in the future

Do we want to replace it with another feature gate in future? I think we can keep the feature gate and just keep changing its behavior. So, I would change the wording to something like "The behavior of this feature gate will change over time before it can be considered for beta stage".

However there have been a lot of discussion around that. So I maybe missing something

Reviewer 3: SGTM 👍

An example of a `Provider` with an `onChange` func that periodically gets notified can be found in provider_test.go as UpdatingProvider

> > Note: By enabling this feature gate, all the lists in the given configuration will be merged. 

Reviewer: This note should be in the section above, right? Also, could you use the syntax described [here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#alerts)?

Author: You're right. I put it here by mistake
